# DES-SFM
A Bi-level Integration of Discrete-Event Simulation (DES) and Social Force Modeling (SFM)
Under review paper. Automation in construction
Maximizing labor efficiency in construction projects is a practical challenge due to uncertain conditions. Productivity estimation in different scenarios can assist the project to move forward by making effective decisions. Existing research has recognized workforce size and available workspace as two main influencing factors on labor productivity. It is expected that through workforce expansion, labor productivity is raised. But in practice, working areas in a construction site are limited. On the other hand, a typical response for increasing labor productivity is increasing the number of workers. An increase in the size of workers leads to more physical interactions and interference in the workspaces, which has not been adequately addressed in the introduced methods.  This paper aims to present a framework for identifying the workforce impact on construction productivity, taking into account spatial constraints, labor interactions, and the dynamic construction environment. The Proposed model takes advantage of two modeling methods so that can present a more reliable model and a better insight into the workforce influence on construction activity productivity. This is achieved through the integration of the Discrete Event Simulation (DES) and Social Force Modeling (SFM). In this method, DES is employed to replicate the workflow, while the SFM technique is applied to simulate the physical interactions and mobility of laborers. Furthermore, the ever-changing spatial configuration of the workspace is assessed for its impact on labor productivity. The proposed method is tested with a real-world case study. The results demonstrate that an increase in the number of workers leads to an increase in productivity. Still, this trend applies to the extent that workspace congestion causes productivity reduction. Moreover, labor productivity variation during project progress is addressed in this paper.
